# [Changelog v1.0.0](changelogs/v1.0.0.md)

This document contains the most important changes made.

## Features

This program allows to sort images from an input directory.
All images are moved or copied to a target directory according to the
settings defined in GUI. This allowes for example to rename the files to a
specific nameingpattern or force the program to modify the file metadata.
A user input database is used to extract event and artist information,
allowing the program to distribute the files into multiple folder according
to the obtained information.
If a date could be extracted the file is moved to the corresponding year/event folder.
If not the file is moved to a misc folder.
Misc folder are also possible inside a year folder for files that have no event/artist.

### Abstract

Complete overhaul of the GUI and database.
All database related functions were moved to a seperate menu
allowing to modify each component of the database individually.
Furthermore the database was improved to contain more detailed data.

### Details

- GUI changes:
  - Add GUI for: Add, modify & delete...
    - database
    - events
    - subevents
    - participants
    - persons
    - artists
  - Change GUI OptionMenu to Combobox
  - Add GUI tooltips
  - Add multiple boxes: basebox, selectionbox, ...
- Database changes:
  - Add validation tests for persons, artists and subevents
  - Add subevents and participants to events
  - Add event_id to subevents
  - Rework db.getter, inputchecks and GUI functions
  - Rework insertion into database + load/save json
  - Enable saving and loading database from json
  - Move time shift to individual artist
  - Cascade db updates
- General
  - Add test suit for sorting testing almost all setting-combinations with a multitude of testfiles
  - Add input warnings and adjust GUI to show them
  - Add script for creating testing images/files
  - Add same name file processing
  - Add sample images/files
  - Add subevent processing
  - Add time frame testing
  - Add db tests
  - Enable pytonoptimizations for exe
  - Enable timeestimate
  - Allow to select event or artist from list via selectionbox if needed
- Code related:
  - Add and use date related helper classes
  - Split db-boxes into mutliple files
  - Algorithm for getting an event from an artist was improved.
  - Sorting-algorithm is now date dependent.
  - Improve input regex to allow trailing characters
  - Remove get_num_signature_regex
- BUG-Fixes:
  - Participant date was not tested against
  - Dateentry with input 00 as year
  - ...
